# ECOA
The source code will be uploaded after the paper is accepted
While meta-heuristic algorithms have become a pivotal technology for solving complex optimization problems, they still face a dual critical challenge: balancing exploration-exploitation phases  and designing efficient update strategies. Inspired by enterprise competition mechanism, this study proposes an innovative Enterprise Competition Optimization Algorithm (ECOA), which establishes a competitive framework dividing population into interacting subpopulations. The algorithm introduces three innovations. First, a dynamic phase transition mechanism driven by competitive pressure allows subpopulations to autonomously switch between exploration and exploitation phases. Next, hierarchical collaborative update strategies are designed based on information exchange integrates global best solution, subpopulation best solutions, and individual best solutions. The collaboration of strategies significantly enhances optimization efficiency and adaptability. Further, a role-based strategy assignment mechanism is proposed to adaptively guide the appropriate update strategies to individuals, enhancing resource utilization throughout search process. ECOA is extensively evaluated against 18 state-of-the-art algorithms on the CEC2017 and CEC2022 benchmarks and further validated through four real-world engineering applications, demonstrating superior effectiveness in addressing complex optimization challenges across both theoretical and practical domains. The source code is available at: https://github.com/YitianLi99/ECOA.
